And The Last Lecture we finished our ecard.
Now if you have a look at our blueprint you may ignore the yellow styling here.
I'll come back to this later.
You see that once I click on favorite here we actually should display an alert or we don't have to but
it's a nice exercise to learn about this ionic to feature and it prevents Jews from accidentally clicking
on favorite and favorite quotes which he doesn't like.
Right.
So how do we add such an alert.
Let's dive into this and this lecture on the app.
We finished the template.
Now it's time to handle the case that we actually clicked his favorite button.
We already have to click Lisner here and we execute on at two favorite and we passed a quote as an argument.
So if the code starts TS file I can add on a favorite we receive a quote and I'll name it selected quote
to avoid any naming confusion selective quote which of course is of type quote our interface we're importing
here at the top and Indee on add two favorite method.
I now want to show such an alert as always.
You can learn more about this in your physical component documentation here under alerts and you can
read frood had to read through all kinds of alerts you can create.
And as always you will learn more about this this course where we reduce this feature in a couple of
apps.
So let me start implementing my basic alert here to implement an alert.
We first need to inject something we need to inject the alert controller.
So all binded to appropriately named alert controller like this and this allows me to inject the other
controller.
You also need to add the import switches.
Alert controller from ionic angular.
So make sure to add this import here at the top and then with that and check it in the on two favorite
Meffert I can simply say this alert controller create and this allows me to create a new alert.
Now this alert has to be stored in some variable or constant so that we can actually use it.
I'll do that here assign it to this alert constant and to create Meffert takes of javascript object
as an argument.
And in his Optik we're able to configure this alert.
Now as mentioned you can dive into the official docs to learn about all the possibilities though.
I'm going to show them throughout the course to the following properties are the ones you're probably
going to use most.
Though we need a title for the alert so we can say add code because the action we're actually doing
we can add a subtitle to our alert and say Are you sure to kind of indicate why we're showing this alert.
And of course you're free to choose any text you want there.
After the subtitle we can add a message and here we could say Are you sure you want
to add the quote.
And of course this is kind of double checking here with all the titles and subtitles.
And as a side note subtitle has is capital-T so make sure to take care about this subtitle with capital-T
so that might be overcoached you can leave out the subtitle for example you could place that message
in a subtitle and then leave out the message.
You don't have to use the subtitle and massive propertied every You can use one of them or none of them.
You don't need it.
And with that we get a basic alert.
Now I'm going to change this soon I want to show you how it looks like this though and we can display
the alert by using our treated alert and then calling present like this.
This will Precentor alert to the user.
And let's see how it actually looks in action.
If we go to our application here and we click on favorite YOU SEE THE here.
You don't see any button though we can dismiss it by clicking anywhere else but it would certainly be
better to have at least on one button wouldn't it.
So let's add a button.
You can add a basic button by adding the buttons property to that.
Alert object we're creating here and this is an array of buttons you can have multiple buttons and you
can simply say OK this will add a button with the caption OK.
And this button will automatically dismissed the alert.
So let's see this in action.
Once our app reloads here click there click a favorite.
Now you see the OK button here.
So better.
But we certainly need a choice in our case.
You're right we're questioned if we want to add the code.
So be nice if you could say more than just.
OK maybe we all want to say no right.
That's why you can create more complex buttons.
You don't have to pass a string in disarray.
You can also pass whole javascript object and set such a button object.
Remember where the buttons are array now takes a text which has the text displayed on the button where
we can say yes go ahead.
And we also can define a handler.
Which means well what does which cloture that get executed if the spotless clicked.
And here you simply add or pass a function as a value.
So this is your 6 arrow function which gets executed when you click this button and I'm going to say
console log.
OK here sort of can see that this button was depressed anti-Second badness and never javascript object.
Here I want to have a text of no change.
Changed my mind like this.
And then I want to give does a handler of.
Well this function here where I say can sort of see that this button was pressed and important in general.
All those property names titles subtable message buttons and insert the buttons text handler of course
are reserved to.
Kind of ironic to expect exactly those property names.
That's why I also pointed to the documentation where you can read about all support property names.
You can't kind of come up with your own names.
How would I onic to know what to do with them right.
So this let's save this.
And now we should see two buttons at least.
Let's see this in the running application once it rebuilds we see yes go ahead.
No I changed my mind.
Now you can actually also assign roles to buttons.
You do this by adding a roll here and a roll is a string cancel for example.
Again if you want to learn more about this dive into the official documentation and here you can learn
more about which properties are supported.
You can even create radio buttons inside of an alert and how you can well use those buttons and how
you can use those alerts.
Also have a look at the API docs which are a bit more specific about all supported options on alerts.
So it is the place to really dive deeper into this.
What role does is it simply tells you or tells Ionescu that this button is there.
You dismissed the alert and to not do anything else.
And you could even have no roll or the cancel role.
This simply means well dismiss it.
That's why the over button does have no role.
Because here we actually want to do more than just dismiss it.
So enough the talking let's see it in action again with this change in place.
If I now click on No I changed my mind you'll still see me execute cancelled in the background.
Now I want to know is that this is actually the cancel button.
But of course you could also leave this out.
You don't have to specify the role here.
Why would you add to roll then.
Well if you add to cancelable to the Spartan it simply tells you that it will always execute this handler
when ever this oller just dismissed.
So not just if you click that button which would have executed the handler before anyways.
But also if you clicked the backdrop as you can see see it added canceled here.
So this is what role does it say on to.
If de-lurked is dismissed execute as handler.
If you don't have role the handler will only get executed if you hit the button.
But not if you tap the backed background or the backdrop which kind of overlays your background.
So does it still hurt.
This is how you can display the alert how you can change the text to get a handle in place now.
Indeed.
Yes go ahead.
Handler here.
We obviously somehow one to store our code or market as favorite.
Now how do we do this.
It is of course related to state management.
We somehow need someplace in our app to manage the state of our quotes to determine if a quote is a
favorite or not.